What do you see when you look at this picture?
Do you see yourself in it?
You should.
But why?
This picture helps us to visualize the beautiful description of Jehovah found at Isaiah 40
verse 11.
Like a shepherd, he will care for his flock.
With his arm, he will gather to gather the lambs.
And in his bosom, he will carry them.
He will gently lead those nursing there young.
Jehovah bears many titles in the Bible, but the designation shepherd is among the most
tender.
Like a shepherd, Jehovah says he will carry his lambs in his bosom, illustrating his
tender love and care for each one of his precious sheep.
Look again at the picture.
Is it hard for you to see yourself as a lamb nestled in the bosom of our shepherd, Jehovah?
We know that many of you dear brothers and sisters are coping with very difficult challenges
day after day in this cruel wicked world.
Such challenges can make it difficult for you to feel like a lamb safe and secure in
the bosom of our shepherd.
Please be assured that Jehovah is fully aware of every challenge you face.
Why can you be so sure?
Let's read with David, the writer of Psalm 23 verse 4 says,
Though I walk in the valley of deep shadow, I fear no harm.
For you are with me, your rod and your staff reassure me.
Much like a physical valley located deep in the shadows of nearby mountains, a figurative
valley can be used to describe a low point in one's life when we're feeling down, gloomy,
or in a dark place.
When David wrote this song, he was feeling down at a low point in his life.
Well, what valley of deep shadow are you currently going through?
Are you feeling overwhelmed with trying to provide for your family's needs?
Dealing with a serious health issue such as cancer?
Exhausted because you're caring for your mate or a parent with dementia?
Trying to cope with the death of a loved one?
Baddling feelings of loneliness, worthlessness, or anxiety, or facing persecution?
It's so difficult to remain positive when facing the darkest days of our life.
But there's a bright side.
What is that?
Jehovah is aware of the mountain-like obstacles that cause you to feel low as if you were in
a valley of deep shadow.
He not only sees your pain, but he's ready to come to your rescue, lift you up with
his strong arms and embrace you like that lamb in the picture.
Psalm 23 is one of the most well-known passages in the Bible, and beautifully describes the
loving way that our shepherd Jehovah leads, protects, and feeds his precious sheep.
As we consider these three ways that Jehovah cares for us, look for the answers to the
following questions.
What does Jehovah do?
How does he do it?
And what do you need to do?
The first way.
Our shepherd leads us.
At Psalm 231, the theme of our discussion, David expressed with full confidence, Jehovah
is my shepherd.
I will lack nothing.
As a young man, David proved to be a capable shepherd who tenderly cared for and protected
his entire flock and cared for the specific needs of each sheep.
Here in Psalm 23, David portrays himself not as a shepherd, but as a humble sheep under
the loving care of Jehovah, affectionately calling him my shepherd.
During his lifetime, David experienced many highs and lows, peaks, valleys, joys, and
disappointments.
But whatever value of deep shadow he faced, David always relied on his shepherd to lead
into safety and provide exactly what he needed when he needed it.
With complete trust and confidence, he said, I will lack nothing.
No wonder Psalm 23 has been called a psalm of assurance or trust.
What does our shepherd do?
Verses two and three answer.
In grassy pastures, he makes me lie down.
He leads me to well-watered resting places.
He refreshes me.
He leads me in the paths of righteousness for the sake of his name.
The watchtower once explained, David here paints a scene of contentment, refreshment, and
security.
Jehovah leads us to grassy pastures and tranquil waters.
The Hebrew word rendered pastures can mean pleasant place.
If we humbly follow our shepherd, he will lead us to a pleasant place where we can feel
secure and have peace of mind, even when we're going through a valley of deep shadow.
How does Jehovah lead us?
By means of his word, he teaches us how to make wise decisions that lead to paths of
righteousness, a life course that is pleasing to him and brings us happiness.
He sets a course and a pace that we're able to follow, never expecting us to do more
than we're able.
Jehovah also leads us by means of undershepherds, the elders, who tenderly care for a spiritually,
emotionally and physically, so that we will lack nothing.
What do you need to do?
If you're going through a valley of deep shadow, search our many publications for specific
Bible principles and helpful advice that can shed light on your present circumstances
and provide practical ways to overcome difficulties or give you the patience to endure.
We find encouragement and comfort watching JW Broadcasting.
In fact, once Sister said, JW Broadcasting has helped me to be more positive.
When I get lonely or discouraged, I find an encouraging talk or a morning worship
program to watch.
Are you benefiting from the monthly broadcasts, videos, and uplifting songs?
The second way.
Our shepherd protects us.
Let's read the second half of verse 4.
Your rod and your staff reassure me.
David used a shepherd's rod and staff to illustrate Jehovah's protective care.
Ancient shepherds used a rod to protect their sheep from predators, such as lions, bears,
wolves, and snakes.
They also used a staff to guide their sheep, gently nudging them in the right direction.
Interestingly, some staffs had a hook at the end of the long stick that helped them as
a shepherd gently draw back a sheep strain or nibbling into danger, guiding them back
to the protection of the flock.
The sheep certainly did not fear that the shepherd would use his rod or staff to beat them.
What does Jehovah do?
Our loving shepherd stands ready to use his figure of rod and staff to warn and protect
us from predators seeking to harm us, especially from Satan, who in the Bible is portrayed
as a vicious lion and a cunning serpent.
Jehovah also has appointed elders in the congregation to warn and protect us from harmful influences
and from taking a dangerous path in this wicked world.
No doubt, you're filled with heartfelt appreciation and are comforted knowing that Jehovah
is always on the lookout to use his figure of rod and staff to warn and protect us, not
to beat us.
If you strayed or nibbled away from the flock for whatever reason, please listen to Jehovah
as he speaks to you through his written word, the Bible, and our brotherhood.
Humbly follow the gentle nudging to lead you back to the safety of the congregation, where
you'll enjoy lush, grassy pastures and refreshing, well-watered resting places.
Elders, you are entrusted with a privilege but a heavy responsibility to protect Jehovah's
precious sheep, whom he's placed under your care.
We take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation for those of you who use your
figurative rod and staff to protect the sheep, never making them feel beaten down but truly
loved and appreciated.
How does Jehovah protect us?
He protects us as a group or flock.
Satan will never succeed in wiping Jehovah's sheep from the earth.
Jehovah also protects each sheep individually.
How?
Most important, he protects us spiritually.
The draw close to Jehovah book explains, our loving God protects us from spiritual harm
by equipping us with what we need in order to endure trials and to safeguard our relationship
with him.
Jehovah thus works to preserve our life, not just for a few short years, but for eternity.
How reassuring that Jehovah makes sure that we have everything we need so that we will
in effect lack nothing?
What do you need to do?
Take full advantage of the many provisions Jehovah makes available to protect us spiritually,
prayer, fellow worshippers, and timely spiritual food which we'll discuss next.
The third way, our shepherd feeds us.
Psalm 23 verses 5 and 6 reassures us, you prepare a table for me before my enemies.
You refresh my head with oil.
My cup is well filled.
Surely goodness and loyal love will pursue me all the days of my life and I will dwell
in the house of Jehovah for all my days.
What does Jehovah do?
Jehovah now describes our shepherd as a generous host who spreads before us his invited guests
delicious and nutritious food and drink in great abundance.
How does Jehovah feed us?
Through the faithful and discreet slave, Jehovah gives us timely publications as well as
rich spiritual programs at our meetings, assemblies, conventions, JW broadcasting, governing
body updates, along with encouraging songs and videos, and so much more.
Truly, the slave is giving us food at the proper time, what we need when we need it.
We certainly lack nothing spiritually.
What do you need to do?
Show your appreciation for the food the slave provides by eating it and never being fussy,
picky or selective in your eating habits.
Remember, the Bible and Bible-based publications are ways that Jehovah speaks to us in
effect saying, this is the way, walk in it, my precious sheep.
As we read the Bible and meditate on the verses that touch our heart, we'll be better equipped
to correct any faulty thinking that could lead us to dark feelings of anxiety, loneliness,
worthlessness, anger or resentment.
Like David, be determined to dwell in the house of Jehovah for all your days.
Continue attending our upbuilding meetings, assemblies and conventions, where we receive
spiritual nourishment and protection.
A sister who has traversed various valleys of deep shadow, expressed what helps her to
stay focused and keep on enduring.
She said, depressive thoughts are not trustworthy, they are the product of a treacherous heart
that distorts our thinking abilities.
But because I trust Jehovah completely, each Bible verse proves to be like a solid stepping
stone that enables me to gradually climb out of my many valleys of deep shadow.
Our sister expressed so well how we feel about our loving shepherd who promises to help
us successfully navigate through any valley of deep shadow.
Isn't this a beautiful picture of a shepherd with his sheep?
It's a door in the governing body conference room since the 1970s.
It's a visual reminder of the importance of their work as shepherds.
Another loach, a member of the governing body since 1994, recently explained what this
inspiring painting has meant to him throughout the decades.
Enjoy the following video segment.
This painting in the governing body conference room shows the shepherd and his sheep and
the shepherd is caring for the sheep and they feel obviously comfortable and protected.
They do that despite, as you can see in the background, stormy weather, but the sheep feel
just fine.
In connection with the application in the Bible, the Bible shows that Jehovah God is a shepherd
and cares for us as his sheep.
But so is Jesus Christ, he is called the fine shepherd.
And what are shepherds to do?
Shepherds lead the sheep, feed the sheep, shepherds protect the sheep, but then shepherds
also care for injured or ailing sheep.
But the fact is that all of God's people are sheep.
And so we have the privilege to follow the lead of Jehovah and Jesus and the elders and
work together in unity.
At the governing body meeting, we sometimes look at the picture and we try to apply what
is implied in the painting to our work with the congregations and the worldwide flock.
Thank you, brother Loach, for sharing those encouraging comments with us.
How reassuring it is to know that our loving shepherds on the governing body take their
responsibility to lead, protect, and feed you, me, and all of Jehovah's precious sheep
very seriously.
May we all continue to humbly and obediently follow their lead as we follow closely the
lead of our great shepherd Jehovah and in the footsteps of our fine shepherd and king,
Jesus.
Never forget that Jehovah is not just our shepherd, he is your shepherd, he is my shepherd.
With Jehovah our shepherd leading, protecting, and feeding us, we can face the future with
complete confidence and echo the words that David used to introduce this beautiful and
reassuring Psalm.
The words contained at Psalm 23, Jehovah is my shepherd, I will lack nothing.